---
layout: article
title: Spack
categories: [Spack]
tags: [Spack]
author: wpsze
mathjax: true
mathjax_autoNumber: true
---

# Spack

Spack is a package management tool designed to support multiple versions and configurations of software on a wide variety of platforms and environments. It was designed for large supercomputing centers, where many users and application teams share common installations of software on clusters with exotic architectures, using libraries that do not have a standard ABI. Spack is non-destructive: installing a new version does not break existing installations, so many configurations can coexist on the same system.
Most importantly, Spack is simple. It offers a simple spec syntax so that users can specify versions and configuration options concisely. Spack is also simple for package authors: package files are written in pure Python, and specs allow package authors to maintain a single file for many different builds of the same package.

<https://spack.readthedocs.io/en/latest/>

## Search packages online

> <https://packages.spack.io/>

# Installation

Getting Spack is easy. You can clone it from the github repository using this command:

git clone -c feature.manyFiles=true https://github.com/spack/spack.git
{:.info}

This will create a directory called spack.

Once you have cloned Spack, we recommend sourcing the appropriate script for your shell:

```sh
For bash/zsh/sh
. spack/share/spack/setup-env.sh
(add into .bashrc)
For tcsh/csh
source spack/share/spack/setup-env.csh
```

Sourcing these files will put the spack command in your PATH, set up your MODULEPATH to use Spack’s packages, and add other useful shell integration for certain commands, environments, and modules. For bash and zsh, it also sets up tab completion.

- spack env create yourEnvironmentName
- spack env activate yourEnvironmentName
- spack env list # You can see a list of your available environments
- spack env status # you can see which environment you are currently	
- spack env deactivate
- spack find # to see what packages are installed in the current environment
- spack add python@=3.10
- spack add compilerName@=compilerVersion
- compilerPath=$(spack location -i compilerName@=compilerVersion)
- spack add python@=3.10 %gcc@=9.5.0 # As a general rule, you should use the same compiler for installing all of your packages within an environment
- spack env remove yourEnvironmentName

# Slurm

```sh
#!/bin/sh
# This file is called submit-script.sh
#SBATCH --partition=shared       # default "shared", if not specified
#SBATCH --time=0-04:30:00        # run time in days-hh:mm:ss
#SBATCH --nodes=1                # require 1 nodes
#SBATCH --ntasks-per-node=64     # cpus per node (by default, "ntasks"="cpus")
#SBATCH --mem-per-cpu=4000       # RAM per node in megabytes
#SBATCH --error=job.%J.err
#SBATCH --output=job.%J.out
# v---Remember to activate your Spack environment!! 
spack env activate yourEnvironmentName
srun --mpi=pmix -n 64 /home/username/mpiprogram
```




